Let’s consider a more complex case.
I want to start at this particular X value.
I want to finish at this particular X value.
But, in between, I wanted to visit this X
value and this X value.
I refer to these intermediate points as via
points.
Sometimes, it’s also referred to as way
If a robot is going to do this particular
motion, we have a problem in that the trajectory
is not smooth.
At each of the points, the velocity abruptly
changes from one value to another.
Here, the velocity is increasing.
A moment later, the velocity is decreasing.
The way we get around this problem is to introduce
what are called blends.
So here, we have the motion between these
points and in red, it’s shown the blend
phase.
Now, this is where we introduce a smooth mathematical
curve which maintains continuity.
So, initially, we accelerate on to the curve
and head towards X2.
When we get near X2, we start to transition
in to the velocity we require on to the next
path.
So, we transition our velocity over a set
period, over what’s called the acceleration
interval.
So, our path now consists of segments of linear
velocity with parabolic or higher-order polynomial
blends to join them together.
We can consider the motion in terms of three
segments.
The first segment gets us from point 1 to
point 2, second segment from point 2 to point
3 and so on.
Because you probably noticed by now that the
robot isn’t actually getting to the via
points.
It’s getting close to X2 and then it’s
going to turn to get on to the path to head
towards X3.
So, it misses X2 and then actually misses
X3 as well.
Now, this is just a bit of a trade off.
If the acceleration time is very small, then
we will go very close to the via points, but
the acceleration will be very high.
We’re going to have to head towards X2 and
then very, very quickly change our velocity
in to the velocity we need to head towards
X3.
If the acceleration time is large, then the
acceleration of the robot is much lower, but
we’re going to miss the via points by a
larger amount.
This is a fundamental engineering trade off
between accuracy and acceleration.
Let’s create a trajectory with via points.
The first point we want to visit has got a
value of 10.
The last point that I visit has got a value
of 30.
And, the via points I’m going to set as
40, 10 and the last one.
To compute a trajectory with via points, I
used the Toolbox function mstraj and it’s
got rather a lot of arguments.
First argument is the via points.
The next argument is the velocity at which
we move, and it’s going to be one unit per
second.
The third argument I’m going to set to null
for the time being.
And, I’m going to put in the first location
that we want to visit.
I’m going to put in the time interval and
I’m going to put in the acceleration time.
And, here is our trajectory.
We’ve gone from 10 up to 40, back down to
10 and up to 30.
Now, let’s look at what happens when we
adjust some of the parameters.
The first thing I’m going to do is to increase
the acceleration time.
So, I’m going to increase it from 2 to 4
and we can see that the trajectory has become
more rounded.
And, we can also see the distance by which
the trajectory misses the via points has increased.
I can increase the acceleration time even
more, put it up to 8 and we can see again
that the trajectory is much more rounded because
the acceleration is much gentler but, the
distance between the trajectory and the via
points is increased even further.
If I set the acceleration time to 0, we exactly
reach the via points but the trajectory will
be discontinuous.
The acceleration will be infinite at the via
points.
Let’s go back to something a little bit
more gentle.
And now, what I’m going to do is to increase
the velocity at which we move along the trajectory.
You can see right now that this trajectory
takes nearly 90 seconds to execute.
So, I’m going to double the speed at which
we move along the trajectory, change the velocity
from 1 to 2, and now we execute the trajectory
in just under 50 seconds.
The last thing that I’m going to do is to
remove the velocity specification and replace
it with a time specification.
I’m going to say that I don’t care about
velocity, but I do care about the time.
And, I want to specify the times of the segments.
I want the first segment to last for 10 seconds.
I want the second segment to last for 30 seconds.
And, I want the last segment to last for 20
seconds.
And now, the trajectory looks like this.